# model_fishery

This code base is using the [Julia Language](https://julialang.org/) and
[DrWatson](https://juliadynamics.github.io/DrWatson.jl/stable/)
to make a reproducible scientific project named

"model_fishery"

It is authored by Jae S. Choi.

To (locally) reproduce this project, do the following:

0. Download this code base. Notice that raw data are typically not included in the
   git-history and may need to be downloaded independently.
1. Open a Julia console and do:
   ```
   julia> using Pkg
   julia> Pkg.add("DrWatson") # install globally, for using `quickactivate`
   julia> Pkg.activate("path/to/this/project")
   julia> Pkg.instantiate()
   ```

This will install all necessary packages for you to be able to run the scripts and
everything should work out of the box, including correctly finding local paths.

You may notice that most scripts start with the commands:
```julia
using DrWatson
@quickactivate "model_fishery"
```
which auto-activate the project and enable local path handling from DrWatson.



## Some of the following links and info is out of sync .. they will be updated soon.


## Current results:

- [Results based upon this developmental branch.](snowcrab/snowcrab_results_current.md)

- They are generated by the [main calling program.](snowcrab/04.snowcrab_fishery_model.md) 


---

## Models currently implemented:

- Discrete logistic (Euler form) 

- Discrete logistic map 

- Six sex/size-stage continuous delay differential equation model  



## Example data are in RData form: 

- [biodyn_number_size_struct.RData](snowcrab/data/biodyn_number_size_struct.RData) 
        
    - time series by large areal units, number, size, habitat, etc.

    - used by stage structured models

- [biodyn_biomass.RData](snowcrab/data/biodyn_biomass.RData) 
        
    - time series by large areal units in biomass 

    - used by logistic models 


---

## Documentation:

[An example using this approach is found here](https://www.biorxiv.org/content/10.1101/2023.02.13.528296v3) for **snowcrab**. It is now grafted onto bio.snowcrab for operational work (as of Jan 2023) 

[Current documentation is here.](snowcrab/ms_choi_v3.pdf)  

